---
title: About Me
permalink: wiki/About_Me/
layout: wiki
---

David Mills
-----------

David Mills is a physicist / geek / tinkerer with an abiding love of
finding out how and why things work. This has brought him neither fame
nor fortune, but has lead to some interesting discoveries and lucrative
contracts.

David now works as a postdoc researcher at the interface between optics
and life sciences, he is not quite sure how this came about as last
thing he remembers is using large lasers to cause things to explode,
nevertheless he is enjoying the work. The aim of David's current
research is to produce a cheap board-spectrum water toxicity sensor
based on standard optical technology & biological membranes, yet
deployable and usable by the lay-person.

Prior to his involvement in bio-sensors, David worked with a
collaboration trying to listen to rat neural blastomers as they attached
to and migrated across an integrated circuit.

David finds it awkward to talk about himself in the 3rd person for very
long, and so will now stop doing so.

My Ph.D research under the guidance of Kurt. W. Kolasinski was on the
formation and characterisation of meso- and nano- structured silicon.
The aim of the research being to discover and document the processes by
which pulsed laser irradiation of a silicon surface at or just below the
ablation threshold produces regular structures (frozen capillary waves,
pits and conical pillars). A significant discovery during the period of
my Ph.D was that of solidification driven extrusion, whereby ultra-sharp
spikes grow from sub-millimeter droplets of molten silicon.

I have a CV and [a less formal biography](/wiki/Bio2 "wikilink") also
available online.
