== Low  Power Arduino Temperature & Humidity Logging Sensor Platform ==

I was contacted by a small city archive to provide a temperature and humidity logging system for their store rooms. Heritage items are kept under standardized conditions in storage to prevent (or at least retard) deterioration, pest damage and mold growth; ensuring those conditions are maintained over long periods of time is essential. Commercial data logging systems exist, but are prohibitively expensive for small institutions. 

The requirement was for a number of data loggers recording ambient temperature & humidity values every 10 minutes (user configurable). A low-power RF link on 2.4 GHz was investigated for remote reporting sensors, but the RF environment in the archive was inhospitable - thick walls, archive spread over several floors and strong co-channel interference from building WiFi installation. Instead, it was decided to record sensor readings directly on the sensor nodes for periodic collection.

=== Sensors ===
I initially planned to use a combination of DS18B20 1-wire temperature sensor and SHT21 humidity sensor on the data logger, both parts I'm very familiar with. I was unable to source sufficient SHT21s, so had to fall back on another humidity sensor - the DHT22. I'd originally considered the DHT22 to be too low specification for this application, until I found an [http://www.kandrsmith.org/RJS/Misc/hygrometers.html article] testing their performance - this, along with some testing of my own convinced me to use them. The DHT22 includes a temperature sensor, removing the need for a DS18B20 and reducing the bill of materials.