__NOTOC__ 

==== David Mills's Internet Shed  ====

Welcome to webshed.org. One of [[About Me|my]] homes on the internet. 

Friends &amp; family that have ended up here are probably lost, anyone looking for my photos probably wants to be at [http://www.flickr.com/photos/dtl/ Flickr] instead. Academic visitors are directed to my [[Research Interests|research pages.]] Radio amateurs may be interested in my [[Ham Radio|Ham Radio]] and [[:Category:Radio|Radio Projects]] pages. My radio callsign is [[G7UVW]]. <br> <br> 

{| cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2" border="1" align="center" style="width: 80%;padding:1em 1em 1em 1em; border:1px solid #A3B1BF; background-color:#E6F2FF;"
|-
| valign="undefined" rowspan="1" colspan="2" | <span style="font-size:16pt">Featured projects and articles</span><br><br><div style="text-align: left;">Some of the more recent things I've been working on and documenting here on webshed. From photography to electronics via wine and cider making, I've a wide range of interests. Mature projects and other projects not actively being worked on at the moment are listed in the [[:Category:Projects|Projects Category]] in the menu bar on each page.<br></div>
|-
| valign="undefined" align="undefined" | 
== Electronics  ==

*[[Simple iPod Tx|Simple iPod FM transmitter]] 
*[[Mercury PTO|A mercury tuned oscillator (permeability tuned oscillator)]] 
*[[ESR meter|Equivalent series resistance meter]] 
*[[18tftbreakout|Making a cheap Chinese 1.8" TFT LCD module work]]<br><br>

== Photography  ==

*[[Solargraphy|A long term pin-hole photography project]]

| valign="undefined" align="undefined" | 
== Radio  ==

*[[ZS6BKW antenna|ZS6BKW Wire antenna]] 
*[[GB0SNB|Kelvedon Hatch Secret Nuclear Bunker amateur radio station]] 
*[[FUNcube-Dongle-Linux|Using a FUNcube Dongle SDR reciever under Linux]] 
*[[QRSS 2m|144 MHz QRP QRSS transmitter]] 
*[[FT290-Audio|Yaseu FT290R Audio Fix]] 
*[[PNP-80|80m band RX using only PNP transistors]]<br><br>

== Useful Information  ==

*Some information on various [[TOKO Coils]] and transformers.

|}

<table
 style="text-align: left; width: 60%; background-color: rgb(230, 242, 255);"
 border="1" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="2">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" rowspan="1"
 align="undefined" valign="undefined">
      <h1>Featured
projects and
articles</h1>
      <br>
Some of the more recent things I've been working on and documenting
here on webshed. From photography to electronics via wine and cider
making, I've a wide range of interests. Mature projects and other
projects not actively being worked on at the moment are listed in the
Projects Category in the menu bar on each page.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="undefined"
 valign="undefined">== Electronics&nbsp; ==<br>
      <br>
*[[Simple iPod Tx|Simple iPod FM transmitter]] <br>
*[[Mercury PTO|A mercury tuned oscillator (permeability tuned
oscillator)]] <br>
*[[ESR meter|Equivalent series resistance meter]] <br>
*[[18tftbreakout|Making a cheap Chinese 1.8" TFT LCD module
work]]<br>
      <br>
      </td>
      <td align="undefined"
 valign="undefined">== Radio&nbsp; ==<br>
      <br>
*[[ZS6BKW antenna|ZS6BKW Wire antenna]] <br>
*[[GB0SNB|Kelvedon Hatch Secret Nuclear Bunker amateur radio station]] <br>
*[[FUNcube-Dongle-Linux|Using a FUNcube Dongle SDR reciever under
Linux]] <br>
*[[QRSS 2m|144 MHz QRP QRSS transmitter]] <br>
*[[FT290-Audio|Yaseu FT290R Audio Fix]] <br>
*[[PNP-80|80m band RX using only PNP
transistors]]<br>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="undefined"
 valign="undefined">== Photography&nbsp; ==<br>
      <br>
*[[Solargraphy|A long term pin-hole photography project]]<br>
      </td>
      <td align="undefined"
 valign="undefined">== Useful Information&nbsp; ==<br>
      <br>
*Some information on various [[TOKO Coils]] and transformers.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>