---
title: Main Page
permalink: wiki/Main_Page/
layout: wiki
---

Welcome to webshed.org. One of Dave's homes on the internet.

Friends & family that have ended up here are probably lost, anyone
looking for my photos probably wants to be at
[Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/photos/dtl/) instead. Accademic visitors
are directed to my research pages.

Who am I ?
----------

Hello, I'm David Mills. Pleased to meet you.

I'm old. I was never a child - just shorter than I am now. I'm a
loveable, grumpy old git. I'm stupidly shy unless drunk, then I'm
stupidly shy and drunk. I'm an atheist, a
conservative-anarchist-communist-liberal, a geek of the physical
sciences and obsolete computers. I read a lot. I have a PhD.

I like beer, aniseed balls, curry, red wine, computers and cats. I
dislike religious fundamentalists, children, cucumber, sprouts and
milipeeds.

I've worked as a barman, an accountant, a bank clerk, a double glazing
salesman, a road sweeper, an embedded systems developer, a network
installer and I've manned the helldesk. Now I blow things up with a big
laser.

I have zero musical skills despite owning at least 10 CDs and having
several tens of gigs of MP3s on my computers. I sometimes write. I often
take photos. I collect books.

I keep finding grey hairs. I cook excellent bacon rolls, pretty good
Thai fish curry, decent roast lamb and appalling cakes.

Research Interests
------------------

My PhD was in the area of laser - surface interactions and structure
formation, with applications in as diverse fields as photovoltaics,
cellular scaffolds and transdermal drug delivery. Much of my work
involved optimising the experimental conditions and devising new
techniques to control the formation of nano- and meso-structures.
