= Multiple DS18x20 1-wire sensors on the Raspberry PI<br>  =

In a previous article I&nbsp;showed how to use a 1-wire tempreature sensor with the Raspberry PI&nbsp;with minimal interface requirements. The nice thing with 1-wire sensors in that multiple devices can share the same bus. You just wire the sensors in parallel - all GND pins tired together, all DQ&nbsp;pins tied together and all VCC&nbsp;pins (if you use them) tired together.<br> 

The perl code developed for the previous article can only access a single sensor. To read multiple sensors we need to fist get the device IDs of all sensors on the bus, then read each sensor's data. <br> 

On the rPI using the w1 kernel drivers, the file "/sys/bus/w1/devices/w1_bus_master1/w1_master_slaves" contains a list of all the device IDs detected on the 1-wire bus. We can read this to get a list of IDs to iterate over, requesting data from each of them.<br> 
<pre>#!/usr/bin/perl
use warnings;
&amp;check_modules;
&amp;get_device_IDs;


foreach $device (@deviceIDs)
{
    $reading = &amp;read_device($device);
        if ($reading&nbsp;!= "9999")
    {
        push(@temp_readings,$reading);
    }
}

#update the database
`/usr/bin/rrdtool update  /home/pi/temperature/multirPItemp.rrd N:$temp_readings[0]:$temp_readings[1]`;

print "Temp 1 = $temp_readings[0]    Temp 2 = $temp_readings[1]\n";



sub check_modules
{
   $mods = `cat /proc/modules`;
if ($mods =~ /w1_gpio/ &amp;&amp; $mods =~ /w1_therm/)
{
 print "w1 modules already loaded \n";
}
else 
{
print "loading w1 modules \n";
    `sudo modprobe w1-gpio`;
    `sudo modprobe w1-therm`;
} 
}


sub get_device_IDs
{
# The Hex IDs off all detected 1-wire devices on the bus are stored in the file
# "w1_master_slaves"    

# open file
open(FILE, "/sys/bus/w1/devices/w1_bus_master1/w1_master_slaves") or die("Unable to open file");
 
# read file into an array
 @deviceIDs = &lt;FILE&gt;;
 
 # close file 
 close(FILE);
}

sub read_device
{
    #takes one parameter - a device ID
    #returns the temperature if we have something like valid conditions
    #else we return "9999" for undefined
    
    $readcommand = "cat /sys/bus/w1/devices/".$_[0]."/w1_slave 2&gt;&amp;1";
    $readcommand =~ s/\R//g;
    $sensor_temp = `$readcommand`;

    if ($sensor_temp&nbsp;!~ /No such file or directory/)
    {
        if ($sensor_temp&nbsp;!~ /NO/)
        {
	       $sensor_temp =~ /t=(\d+)/i;
	       $temperature = (($1/1000));
        }
        else
        {
            $ret = "9999";
        }
    }
    else
    {
        $ret = "9999"
    }
}

</pre> 
This perl code writes data to a RRD database with two sensors - it should be pretty straightforward to extend this to any number of sensors.<br> 

The RRD database is created with this script<br> 
<pre>#!/bin/bash
rrdtool create multirPItemp.rrd  --step 300 \
DS:in_temp:GAUGE:600:-30:50 \
DS:out_temp:GAUGE:600:-30:50 \
RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:1:12 \
RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:1:288 \
RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:12:168 \
RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:12:720 \
RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:288:365
</pre> 
<br>