== What it is ==
This is the working name of my Z80 hardware debugger targeting the Sinclair Spectrum. In essence, this device is a multiface-alike with IO directed to a PC via USB, rather than using the native IO (screen / keyboard) of the spectrum.

The PC > Spectrum interfacing is provided by a PIC18F4550 microcontroller, this interfaces to 16k of static RAM (can be mapped into the spectrum memory map starting at address 0), 64k of SPI interface EEPROM (non-pageable from Spectrum, used to store debuggers and other code to download to the Spectrum), and an SPI IO expander (Address lines go via this, data and control go direct from PIC).

The interface can generate NMI, directly read and write anywhere in the Spectrum memory and IO space, and page in its own RAM to the lower 16k of Spectrum memory. The hardware responds to two hardware ports from the Spectrum side of things; 0x9F (old multiface address) pages the interface in and out (in on read, out on write) and port 0x3F is used for communication between interface and Spectrum.

== How to use it for debugging ==

(Making this up as I go at the moment - I know what I want, just working out how to make it happen)

The Z80 has no hardware breakpoints. We can use a software breakpoint but using a 1 byte opcode that jumps to a known location. These would be the RSTx opcodes then. On the Spectrum at the RSTx opcodes point into ROM and all but RST0 are used for routine entry points. RST0 just points to the reset routine and is essentially unused.

We shall steal RST0 for our breakpoint then. To set a BP we save the current databyte at the BP address, and poke 0xC7 (RST0) in its place. The hardware upon detecting an opcode fetch from address 0 then pages out the Spectrum ROM and pages in the debugging ROM. Upon detecting an opcode fetch outside the lower 16k of memory the Spectrum ROM is paged back in. 

This does mean that it is impossible to debug the Spectrum ROM (BPs can't be set in ROM) and debugging the lower 16k in 64k RAM mode will require some fancy hardware ticks that will not be in the first version of the CPLD code.


== How it works ==

Upon startup the interface is prevent from paging in by a latch which starts up unset, this latch must be set by the host PC for the interface to begin operation.

'''RST0'''
<br/>Upon an opcode fetch from address 0 (A-bus = 0 + M1 going low) pull ROM_CS low and page in RAM to address 0

'''Port access'''
<br/>Upon a read from port 0x9F (A-bus = 0x9f + IORQ going low + RD going low) pull ROM_CS low and page in RAM to address 0
<br/>Upon a write to  port 0x9F (A-bus = 0x9f + IORQ going low + WR going low) release ROM_CS 

<strike>
'''Memory access'''
<br/>If paged in and opcode fetch from far RAM (Address >16k) (A-bus=01xxxxxxxxxxxxxx + M1 going low) release ROM_CS
</strike>
Bad idea - too inflexible.

'''Direct memory access from host PC'''
<br/>TBD
[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:Electronics]]
[[Category:Computer]]