== Introduction ==

Wire antennas with open wire feeder matching stubs have interested me for a number of years; from the ubiquitous G5RV and the optimized ZS6BKW designs, to  doublets and similar antennas, the wire feeder is an integral part of the design. The feeder forms a transmission line transformer, matching the impedance of the antenna's feed point to that of the RF source.


== The ZS6BKW multi-band antenna ==

The ZS6BKW is the multiband antenna I use at home and at the Kelvedon Hatch secret nuclear bunker special even station - GB0SNB, so it is the one I will investigate a the operation of. The antenna is constructed from 27.5m of wire (2 x 13.75 elements) fed with either 13.3m of 300 Ohm or 12.2m of 450 Ohm open wire feeder. Good matching to a 50 Ohm RF source (SWR < 2) is achieved on the following bands: 40, 20, 17, 12, 10, and 6 meters. Use of an ATU allows 80m and 15m to be matched too. How does a short length of open wire feeder manage this? Read on.


== Mathematics ==
Antenna design and analysis really requires mathematics, you can try to short cut the maths by experimentation, but you're never going to really develop anything new or any understanding of what's going on without at least a little maths.
The Telegrapher's Equations describe the behaviour of voltages and current on a transmission line  as a function of time and distance from the source (for a lossless line)

:<math>
\frac{\partial}{\partial x} V(x,t) =
-L \frac{\partial}{\partial t} I(x,t)
</math>

:<math>
\frac{\partial}{\partial x} I(x,t) =
-C \frac{\partial}{\partial t} V(x,t)
</math>

It can be shown (but I'm not doing it here) that in the case of a sinusoidal signal on a transmission line of length <math>d</math> with characteristic impedance <math>Z_0</math> terminated with a load impedance <math>Z_L</math>, the input impedance <math>Z_{in}</math> of the line is given by:

:<math>
Z_{in}(d) = \frac{Z_L cos\beta d + jZ_0 sin \beta d}{Z_0 cos \beta d + j Z_L sin \beta d}
</math>
where <math>\beta = \frac{2\pi}{\lambda}